(upbeat music)
Let's talk about like SEO and meta tags
and all that stuff that goes in the head of your document.
So, if you kind of take a look at our website,
you say, "Okay, like what's the highest level
that we can go?"
And that's our...
Oh no, I spilled my coffee.
Oh man, a little bit, let's pause.
Hey, we're back, I cleaned it up.
Talking about the highest level that we can get,
and that is our layout.js.
And if we take a look at our layout,
there's no HTML tag, there's no body tag.
All of that stuff gets added by Gatsby.
So the question is, like okay but so how do you stick stuff
in the head if you need to?
Most likely the one thing that we're missing
on our website is a title tag.
There's nothing...
If you go to our page here,
there's nothing in the title tag that can help us out.
So, what we use for that is something
called the React Helmet.
And a React Helmet allows us to stick tags
into a React Helmet, and it will transport them
out of wherever you put them
into our document's head.
And that's useful for things like
HTML tags or HTML attributes,
SEO stuff, Open Graph meta tags, all that good stuff.
So, I'm gonna show you,
let's go to,
let's just go to pizza.js,
like the singular pizza,
and I'm gonna show you how to use it,
and then we're gonna pull it back a little bit
and look at how to make a reusable SEO component.
So first thing you need to do,
is import curly bracket Helmet from React Helmet,
And then the way that this works,
is that you can stick a helmet
anywhere you want in your component,
and then just start putting tags in it.
So let's say we're inside of this PizzaGrid right here.
If we put a helmet here
and then we do a title tag that says, hey, give it a save.
Look what happens.
That didn't change.
Maybe I've to close my tab and open it again.
Oh, it's 'cause I have to go to an actual pizza.
Let's click on a pizza, there we go.
See, that has been added to the head of the document.
And if we were to inspect it,
go into the head and there we go,
there's our title tag that's been showed up.
So this is what it's referred to as a side effect.
When JavaScript reaches outside of the component
and updates something outside of itself.
And in that case,
we use React Helmet to do it.
So what can you do?
Well, you can actually just take the pizza.name
and put it in there.
And now all of a sudden,
all of the pizzas names are showing up in...
There we go, look at that.
Do I have to go closer?
There we go.
Pear Necessities is showing on up.
So that's awesome.
You can put these wherever you want.
Like we could put one here
and then if we wanted to put another one somewhere else,
and if for some reason the title tags overlap,
the one that comes later in the component tree will win out.
So at any time,
if you need to stick something
into the head of your document,
you can pop a helmet in there
and then put your tags in there.
Now, what I like to do
is to create a reusable SEO component
that has a set of defaults.
That way, by default all of your pages
are just covered with some good defaults
and then you can start to overwrite those,
or set them on every single page.
So we're actually gonna remove this helmet here.
You can remove the import here.
And then the last thing I want you to do
is to go into your Gatsby config.
So Gatsbyconfig.js,
and we need to use a React Helmet plugin.
And the reason behind that is because,
like, it just worked just fine,
but when we get into server rendering,
when we get into pre-building,
there's a little plugin that's needed
in order to make that work for your server render,
which is really important for your SEO.
So just go to your plugins
and you can do this at the top or at the bottom.
It doesn't matter the order of this case.
And we just say gatsby-plugin-react-helmet.
And that will make sure that our server render
has access to all of those.
Let's go into our Components folder here
and we'll create a new file and call it SEO.js
and then we'll import React from react,
export default function SEO.
And then we also need
to import Helmet from React Helmet.
So import Helmet, oh, it's in curly brackets,
they changed it recently.
From react helmet.
And then inside here,
we can start to put all of our different tags that we need.
So what tags do we need?
Let's actually just code out all the tags that we need
and then we'll go through and pop them all in.
So in this SEO, we're going to destructure the props
into children, location, description,
title, and image.
And don't worry, that all makes sense in just a second.
Then inside of here, we can start.
First of all, what we need to do
is give yourself an HTML tag.
And this is a little bit weird,
but a self-closing HTML tag,
about lang is equal to 'en
or whatever language you are currently using.
And the reason why we do that,
is so that the browser will know
which language your HTML is.
That's sort of just like a very basic accessibility
and SEO thing that you should do for all of your websites
is specify which language your website is in.
Now, if we look at our,
oh, it's not showing up yet,
'cause we haven't used this component anywhere,
but we will.
Other things is React Helmet can take title template.
So we'll say title template
is equal to curly brackets, back text
and then you do dollar, oh sorry, %s -,
and then we also need the name.
I will do something like this Slick's Slices.
And by doing this, anytime that we specify a title tag,
it will automatically append
dash Slick's Slices onto the end.
And for my own website,
every time I had to specify a title tag,
I just mainly wrote Wes Bos on the end.
And I was like, that's kind of annoying
that I have to write that on every single one.
But this title template will allow you to specify a title
and it will manually append that on every single one.
Now you probably are thinking okay, Wes,
but we shouldn't be hard coding that.
You shouldn't be hard coding Slick's Slices,
because what if I changed the name of my website?
What if I use this template for our client's website
and then they're like, who's Slick's Slices?
Well, that's somewhat easy.
We can actually query the data of the website
from our siteMetadata.
Remember we have a title,
a site URL and a description?
We can query that data from here.
Now, my question to you is,
how do we query data into a component
when we're not at a page level?
Well, that happens with a used static query.
And this is a perfect use case for a static query.
So right above,
above here, actually we need to return this.
Make sure you put a return in front of that.
And here we'll say const
is equal to useStaticQuery(graphql``).
And then if we want a query metadata about our site,
we'll say query, site, siteMetadata lowercase d.
And then we want the title, the description,
and we also want a Twitter account.
So actually go back to your siteMetadata
and pop a Twitter in there
and send it to the Twitter account of Slick's Slices.
And you could probably also put this in like a sanity panel.
We'll look at doing store specific settings,
in sanity and upcoming video.
So you could put this information there as well.
So in here, so now we have that,
I need to make sure that we import
useStaticQuery and import graphql.
So here we are import useStaticQuery
and graphql from Gatsby.
Then we'll go down here and we'll interpolate
the actual name instead of manually typing Slick's Slices,
we will put in site.metadata.
Oh, it's not, site.siteMetadata.title.
And let's we wrote a lot of code here.
So it let's go and make sure that the very basics
of the template working in the HTML is working.
So what we wanna do is go into one of our pages
like pizza.js, and we'll go ahead and put the SEO tag
in wherever it is we want.
In our case, I'm not gonna put it inside of our Pizza Grid
because that is sort of mixing Markup and metadata.
So in this case, I'm going to put
some of these fragment tags around the entire thing,
and then we put our SEO tag right in there.
I'll go ahead and import that SEO tag.
So import SEO from components SEO,
and then this SEO then takes,
we can pass the children, location,
description, title, and image.
In our case, we're not using any of these just yet.
So we won't pass it.
But by using this and refreshing the page,
oh, we got a bit of an error.
There was an error that your graphql
cannot query field siteMetadata on type site, why not?
Well, let's go to our graphql explore and figure out why.
So query site, site,
oh, maybe it's just like,
where did the siteMetadata go?
No it was not siteBuildMetadata, grphql.config.
I just debugged it for like five minutes
and then I just restarted it and it started to work.
So I'm not sure why maybe because we like,
I added the Twitter and then it like,
knew that I changed the siteMetadata
and I didn't bring in any of it, I don't know.
But just restart it sometimes before you lose your mind.
So that's working now, what we can then see, what did we do?
We put the HTML lang "en" on there, that's then showing up.
We can also see which attributes
have been added by React Helmet,
'cause it'll put data-react-helmet on it,
which is really cool.
And then I believe if we go down here
and we give ourselves a title tag
and pass in the title attribute
that has been destructured from props,
we go back into our pizza.js and then pass that.
So title is equal to pizza.name.
You see that we now have, let's go into our head.
Let's go and find the title tag,
where are you little title tag?
Here we go, Pear Necessities, Slick's Slices.
So even though I just put title in there,
it's adding dash Slick's Slices,
which has in turn queried from our graphql metadata.
So that's the base of it, now let's keep going.
We need fav icons to show up
and to do that, we have a link tag,
which is, has a rel of icon,
the type is going to be, I'm gonna try to do an SVG icon,
cause that is pretty well supported
in a lot of browsers now.
So image, image/svg+xml, what a combo
and then href is equal to /favicon.svg.
So this is the first time
that we are using the static folder.
And you see, we have favicon.svg.
It's serving this sucker up to the thing there.
And I believe now watch, when I hit Save,
this is gonna go from the old icon
woo, to the new icon, why?
By default, it looks in a static directory
and looks for just favicon.ico,
just browsers do that in general.
So you always should put that there as a very basic backup.
And then we also will provide a backup,
which is ICO for browsers that don't support SVG.
So I'll do another link tag
and rel is equal to alternate icon
and the href is equal to favicon.ico.
That way we've covered our butts in three ways.
We have the file that lives
where it should for browsers to check it.
We also have our SVG, which is great for making it bigger.
And then finally, we have our alternate icon here.
Hit at Save, there we go, looking good.
Next, we wanna do some meta tags.
So we want a meta let's do, is there a viewport?
Yeah, meta name equals viewport,
content equals width, the device width
initial scale equals one, that's good.
We don't have to do anything
that will just give us better responsive design.
We also want our char set.
So meta Setchar capital S is equal to UTF eight.
We want our meta description.
So meta description, the content of the meta description
will be site.siteMetadata.description.
So now if you take a look, we should see here we go.
The best pizza place in Hamilton,
that's being pulled from our config
and then being put in there.
Next up, we want our Open Graph.
So Open Graph is a specification for meta tags
for things like Facebook and Twitter and Pinterest,
and any website that wants to gulp up your information
about the website and you put Open Graph meta tags in there.
So what we wanna do here
is we want to pass the URL for this website,
and that makes sure that we have a location property.
So I'll say location and, and meta property
is equal to not UTF eight, but og:url.
And then the content of that will be the location.href.
So we'll pass that in, if it is available,
which it always is on our pages.
Remember our pages, we can actually get access
to our location via here,
so we can pass that in if we want,
and then pass in the meta location.
You can also use that to pass in a URL,
if it's slightly different.
If you've got like query parameters in the URL
that you don't want showing up, when someone shares it,
then you can overwrite that value with the location there.
We want another one, I'll say meta property
is equal to og:image.
And then I'll say content is equal to,
in this case, we're either gonna pass in a custom image
for the Open Graph image,
or we'll just fall back to the logo.svg.
So I'll just /logo.svg.
And that, because that is in a static folder,
we can reference it with an absolute path there.
Next up we want ogtitle.
So meta property, opengraph:title.
Some of these are gonna be duplicates,
but content is equal to title.
And the key, for some reason, you need a key in this one,
which is, ogtitle,
oh, that's quotes, ogtitle.
And on another one,
this is not that exciting, but it needs to happen,
and that's why I like to do it in one thing.
'Cause imagine having to write these for every single page
that you write, right, that's kind of annoying.
So the next one is the property is our ogsitename.
So og:site_name,
the content is equal
to curly brackets site.siteMetadata.title.
And then the key is, ogsitename.
And last one, meta property is equal to description.
It's actually og:description.
The content is equal to description of that page
that will be passed in and the key is, ogdescription.
Finally, I like to just pass any children in here,
because we do make the ability to pass in your own location,
description, title, and image.
But for whatever reason you wanted to put in another tag
in here, then you wouldn't be able to do that.
So what I do is I just,
we take any children that are passed to the SEO
and just put them at the bottom here.
And then what that allows us to do
is we can open and close our SEO tag,
and we could go in here and just make up a tag.
Like maybe we wanted to overwrite the title tag entirely.
If that was the case,
I could do it like that,
and see how the title tag gets overwritten.
So we just pass down any and overwrite any existing one.
That's kind of, sort of just a little escape patch.
And we don't use that in this course at all,
because we've covered all of our bases,
but it's a nice just to have it
just in case you do run into a situation
where you need it.
So that is the base of it.
Now, what we need to do is go through every single page.
So everything that lives in our pages,
as well as our templates, we will go through them.
So let's start with our pages
and that let's go to pizza at first,
actually, we already started that one.
And we'll go here and say,
image is equal to curly bracket pizza.image.asset.fluid.src.
So in this case, we're gonna pass the raw source to it.
Give that a Save.
Now, if you go into your head,
you should see, here we go, ogproperty, og:image,
and then this should be the URL
to an actual image of the pizza, beautiful.
One thing I like to do
with these is that it's likely that at some point
you may accidentally, you might delete an image,
and that will cause the entire page to stop rendering,
because it's gonna try to grab asset.fluid. Source
from something that is undefined.
So what you can do here is just put a question mark
on the end of these, each of these,
and what that will do is it will make sure that pizza.image
exists before it goes pizza.image.asset,
and then it will make sure that pizza.image.asset exists
before it grabs fluid.
And this is called nested chaining.
And previously, you would have to check
if all of these things existed before going,
and you can just put a question mark on the end.
And Gatsby is set up to under the hood
and it will actually change
those to a long drawn out if statement.
So nice, little bit of fallback values there.
Next let's go to pizzas.js, pizzas.js.
We'll go and pop in an SEO component
and import that sucker.
There we go.
And that needs a title.
And in our case, let's go to the pizza's page here.
The title is either going to be All Pizzas,
or if it's on a specific topping page,
we wanna say like pepperoni pizzas,
or roasted garlic pizzas.
So what we'll do here is we'll say title is equal to,
I'll say, if there is pageContext.topping,
if that is true, then we will say Pizzas With,
and we'll pop in the topping in there.
So pageContext.topping.
Otherwise, colon we'll just say All Pizzas.
There we go, so now we're on All Pizzas,
but if I click on hot peppers,
it says Pizzas with Hot Peppers,
and then it also puts Slick's Slices at the end.
Don't you love this package,
React Helmet, it's like really simple to do it,
and you can stick these anywhere.
So that is good.
What do we got next?
So we've got our homepage,
which will default to the Slick's Slices,
we got our Pizza Menu, SliceMasters.
So let's go to slicemasters.js,
and we'll go down here, give yourself an SEO component.
And we'll oh, actually we have to import that sucker.
Sometimes I have to hit this auto import thing twice.
There we go.
So SEO, the title is going to be slice, oh back text,
Slicemasters and I'll say - page,
and then we'll put the page in there.
So pageContext.currentpage or one.
There we go SlicemastersPage one.
And as we go through the pagination,
it's now updating the title tag for us.
Beautiful, what other pages do we have?
The Order page, so go to order.js.
There's nothing on this page yet,
but let's do the SEO while we're at it.
Say title is equal to Order a Pizza.
I got to import that.
Cool, and then what does that last page?
We have beers.
Let's go to beers, we'll go here.
SEO title is equal to,
we can do this 'beers.'
We have data.beers.nodes.length in stock.
And SEO is not defined,
oh, I forgot to import that component.
There you go, 141 beers in stock.
Actually, one last thing I forgot to do is,
if you go to a specific SlicemasterPage,
so single SliceMaster,
we need SEO tag for that as well.
So we'll go and give ourselves some fragments
and the SEO component and the title.
You see how like it gives me the last page I was on,
if there is no title tag.
So make sure we always put a title tag on each one,
what is it, person.name, Slick.
Maybe we also want an image
for that specific person to show up.
So if that's the case, it would be;
person.image.asset.src and that's showing up, good.
So that is SEO, it's pretty, pretty straightforward.
You just gotta make sure that you cover all your tags,
pass in the pieces that you want,
and then you can stick this SEO component
anywhere that you want it.
It doesn't just have to be a page level,
it can also be at a component level
and you can mix and match them as well.
So let's jump into the next one.